---
Date: 2022-03-29
Tags: literature/video
---
# 202203292146 ─ Dr K on Burnout
## Signs of Burnout
1. General lack of energy (despite the ability to do work, for instance)
   Even though one can still work and go out, "life feels **flat**"; things aren't quite as exciting
2. First phase of burnout: **Lack of empathy** (**self-empathy** as well)
   Cynicism (in work environment, for instance), induces negative view of the world, fatalistic view of the world, "despite anything that I do"
3. Lack of enjoyment/fulfillment with your job
   Even with good performance on paper, people find it to be "unfulfilling in some fundamental way"; since one is lacking (self-)empathy, one tends to devalue their own experience ("I'm lucky to be paid so much, why am I complaining?")

## Burnout is not depression
Generally viewed as it's heavily specifically related to **work/occupation**, while depression is more "organic", "independent" on circumstances (can be *triggered* by external causes, but is perpetuated even in the lack thereof).

Dr K's view: **depends on intersectionality of life with work**. 

Depression: high levels of cortisol (ACTH).
Burnout: neutral/low levels of cortisol. 

Specific feature of depression: **anhedonia** ─ cannot find pleasure in activities which would usually bring pleasure. 

## What can I do about it?
Since it's an intersection between what can be **internally** done and what has to be **externally** dealt with, the most common cause is: one has to work, enjoys work, but is somehow **unable to/runs into obstacles when trying to work**. Thus, it's related to the **effort vs. yields discrepancy**: when a big amount of energy is spent in work, but so little is actually accomplished from it. 

## Six factors that lead to burnout (Maslok?)
### 1. Work load
 People are **overworked**, and their **willingness to work** (or lack thereof?) can lead to burnout. **Individual factors** also can contribute (e.g. volunteering to too many projects such as to impress your boss)
 **Solutions**: **Boundary setting** 

### 2. Control
 Can come from being **micromanaged**^[Every little thing is observed by your manager.], or being a **control freak** yourself (e.g. wanting to do things your way, but not being allowed by the company's decisions/lack of competence of coworkers.......)

### 3. Reward
Like being paid hourly/overtime, or salaries, and what kind of compensations **one is looking for**. For instance, when people are paid bonuses, and how many one is paid **when compared with other people**. 

Thus, the **ego** comes in, by wanting to be **the best**. So one can ask: are you being underpaid? How much would be enough? 

### 4. Community
It's not really what your *boss* thinks about your work, but what your **coworkers** think about your work. 

**Isolation** leads to burnout; some individual aspects to take into consideration here would be **social anxiety**, **comparison with others**, or the **desire to isolate**. How do **you** participate in this community? 

### 5. Fairness
There has to be a **culture of fairness** at work; if someone **feels** that they're being **treated unfairly**, it can heavily trigger burnout (when one has the **perception** of being treated unfairly, not necessarily being treated unfairly). 

There can be some fairness issues at work, for instance all the *politics* involved. 

However, one has to take care such as to not
- advocate against **inexistent** unfairness in the workplace (since it can backfire against you)
- **not** advocating against **actual** unfairness in the workplace (for internal emotional drives, for instance seeking a promotion, or not wanting to "whine")

### 6. (Discrepancy in) Values
People want to be **challenged and valued**; they want to work and have an impact in the world, to do something impactful. 

When someone is challenged and succeed, they get a sense of fulfillment; when they are challenged and succeed, **and someone else values it**, one gets a greater sense of fulfillment. 

When there is some **cognitive dissonance** between what they're excited to do and what they're supposed/ordered to do, there will be a spike in burnout. 

**Ideal situation**: when your job aligns with your values in life. 



---
### Referências
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jqONINYF17M